There are a lot of different things you can do with
EBS volumes like creating snapshots,
creating new EBS volumes from snapshots, and attaching
multiple volumes, just to name a few.
For this course, I wanted to give you just a taste of some EBS operations.
In this clip,
we're going to detach an EBS volume from one instance and attach
it to another. In the scripts/module_04 folder, we'll start with
the create‑ec2‑instance.js file.
Hey, didn't we already use this?
Yep, I just copied some of the code from the work we
did in module 2 and modified it.
This file works a little different.
It will first stop an instance, the one which we'll be removing the EBS volume
from. Then we'll create a new vanilla instance that we can attach the volume to.
Another file that we'll modify will manipulate the EBS volume, but let's go
ahead and modify and run this file first.
There are only four small pieces we need to change in this file.
First, add your region at line 4. Then on line 10, we need to enter
the instanceId for the instance we want to remove the EBS volume
from. Let's go to the EC2 dashboard to find this. Click on Instances
on the left‑hand side menu, and you'll probably have a few instances now.
One of them will be the instance we started from the AWS Marketplace.
You can tell by selecting the different instances and find the one
that has the AMI ID with this long string that starts with
bitnami‑node.js. First note which availability zone it's in. This is
going to be important so that we can launch our new instance in the
same availability zone.
Copy the instanceId and paste it on line.
10.
On line 23, we have a Placement object, which describes
where the instant should be launched in.
We're only indicating an AvailabilityZone, and it should match the instance
that we are removing the EBS instance from. Mine was in us‑east‑1b, so I'm
adding that here. It's important to launch the new instance in the same
availability zone as the instance we are removing the EBS volume from
because EBS volumes can only be connected to an instance in the same
availability zone that it's in.
This is kind of a practical consideration,
since the latency from connecting a volume in another data center,
even as low as it is within the AWS network, would likely be prohibitive. On
line 18, we need to add the ImageId to boot our new instance.
This should be just a vanilla AWS Linux instance.
So back in the AWS Console,
click the Launch Instance button, and copy the AMI ID from the first
AWS Linux entry. Paste that as the value for ImageId.
Now in your command line,
navigate to the scripts/module_04 folder and run create‑ec2‑instance.js.
This will stop the instance we're going to remove the EBS
volume from and create a fresh instance.
This is a great time for a quick note.
Why are we stopping the instance? Well, to detach a root volume from an instance,
the instance must be stopped.
The instance in question only has one attached EBS volume,
and that is its root volume.
To detach it,
we need to stop it. If it had multiple volumes and we were detaching a
non‑root volume, we could detach it while it was running.
Alright, now open up the reuse‑ebs‑volume.js file. This
file does two things, detaches the volume from one
instance and attaches it to another.
Pretty simple.
The first step is to add your region on line 4.
Now we have two IDs we need, the VolumeId of the EBS volume we'll be
detaching and the InstanceId of the EC2 instance we just created, that
we'll be attaching it to. For the second value, you can get that from the
command line. In the output from the command we just executed, copy the
InstanceId and paste it on line 9. For the VolumeId, we need to go to the
EC2 dashboard again.
In the left‑hand side menu, click on Volumes.
You should have a number of volumes equal to the
number of instances that you have.
Which Volume ID do we want?
Well, we need the volume attached to the instance that was stopped.
So look at the Instance ID you copied, and select the volume that is
attached to that instance. Copy the Volume ID and paste it on line 8.
Now with the correct values in place, let's implement the detachVolume function.
I've already added a little more code for you, so start by
declaring the params const object on line 15.
The only property it needs to know when detaching is the VolumeId.
So add a VolumeId parameter and set the value to the
VolumeId argument that we passed in.
Now Inside the Promise,
call the ec2.detachVolume function, passing in params as the first
argument and a callback with err and data arguments as the second.
Reject if there is an err object, and otherwise resolve with data.
Once the volume is detached,
it'll be available to be attached to another instance, so let's implement
attachVolume now. On line 28, create a params const object.
The first parameter attachVolume needs is the InstanceId to attach to.
Set the value to the InstanceId function argument.
The second property is the VolumeId that we'll be
attaching, so set the value to VolumeId.
The last property we'll add is Device.
This is the name the volume will be referenced as on the attached instance.
These values are usually things like /dev/sda1 or /dev/xvda, we'll call ours
something way more creative than that, enter /dev/sdf.
Now on line 35, let's call ec2.attachVolume, passing in
prams as our first argument and a callback with err and
data arguments as the second.
If there's an err object, then call reject with it; otherwise,
call resolve with the data argument.
Now when we run this, it'll swap the volume in question to the new instance.
But there's just one more thing to do, we need to stop the newly‑created
instance before we can attach this EBS volume to it.
Why is that?
Well,
let me show you. Go to the EC2 dashboard, and look at your Volumes again.
On the volume that we're working with, there is a Product code attribute
that says marketplace, and then some ID.
This indicates that the EBS volume was launched from a
snapshot from the AWS Marketplace.
It's sort of a way to stamp the original AMI, so it
can't be resold or used in weird ways.
Another tricky thing is that an EBS volume with a product code
can't be attached to a running instance.
It's kind of odd, I agree,
but we will need to shut down the instance we just created before we
can attach the volume to it. Click on the Instances menu option, and
find the instance we just created You can tell by the AMI ID on the
instance. Select it, then click the Actions drop‑down, Instance
State, and Stop.
Yes, we could've done this with our file as well,
but this can be a little bit quicker in our case. You will need to keep
an eye on when this instance finishes shutting down, but I'll skip in
time a little bit here until it has shut down. In your command line, run
the command node reuse‑ebs‑volume.js.
Once you get some output,
it should've detached and reattached the volume to the new instance.
Now we can check our work by going to the EC2 instance dashboard in
the AWS Console. Refresh and select the target instance that we
attached it to. In its attributes, it'll have a section for Block
devices, and you should see entries for the root and then the volume
that we just attached.
You can start the instance now if you like, and then you'd
have full access to all the data on that volume by
referencing that /dev/sdf device.
There's plenty more you can do with EBS, but I hope that gave
you an idea of the versatility of the service. In the next clip, we're going to get started with S3 buckets.